# Test Driven Development
Reference :
1. https://technologyconversations.com/2013/12/24/test-driven-development-tdd-best-practices-using-java-examples-2/
2. http://fruzenshtein.com/java-tdd-with-junit-example-1/
3. http://fruzenshtein.com/java-tdd-with-junit-example-2/

## TDD Best Practice
- Naming Conventions
  - Choose popular naming conventions : newcomers to the team can get up to speed fast.
  - Separate the implementation from the test code : avoid accidentally packaging test with production binaries. Tests directory expect to be in source directory only, not for production. Put in different directory with implementation code.
  - Place test classes in the same package as implementation : help finding test.
  - Name test classes in similar fashion as classess they test : help finding test.
  - Use descriptive names for test method : it should be clear the condition are set before the test and what is expected outcome. Dont rely on comment because comment usually not displayed in the IDE nor reports generated by CLI or build tools
    ```
    @Test
    public final void whenSemicolonDelimiterIsSpecifiedThenItIsUsedToSeparateNumbers() {
      Assert.assertEquals(3+6+15, StringCalculator.add("//;n3;6;15"));
    }
    ```
- Processes
  - Write the test before writing the implementation code : developer is focused on requirements before starting to work on code.
  - Only write new code when test is failing
  - Rerun all tests everytime implementation code changed : Ensure that there is no unexpected side-effect caused by code changes.
  - All tests should pass before new test is written : focus is maintained on a small unit of work; implementation code is (almost) always in working condition/success.
  - Refactor only after all tests are passing : refactoring is safe

- Development Practices
  - Write the simplest code to pass the test : ensure cleaner and clearer design
  - write assertions first, act later : clarifies the purpose of the requirement and test early
  - Minimize assertions in each test : if multiple assertions are used within one test method, it might be hard to tell which of them caused a test failure.
  - Do not introduce dependencies between tests : each test should be independent from others.
  - Tests should run fast : tests are used often
  - Use mocks : reduced code dependency, faster tests execution
  - Use setup and tear-down methods : allows setup and tear-down code to be executed before and after the class or each method.
  - Do not use base classes : Tests clarity should more important than avoiding code duplication.

- Tools
  - tdd, coding, and testing are dependant on other tools and processes.
  - Code coverage : assurance that everything are tested
  - Continous Integration (CI) : a must tool for most trivial project.
  - Use TDD together with BDD : TDD is white-box, BDD is black-box testing 
